Client isolation announcement (#3549)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/mqtt-service-0.9.x-client-isolation.md

---
date: 2025-07-21
title: MQTT Service will enforce client isolation
change_type:
  - value: change-3BQrQ6adS
    label: API change
product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-LcWEQW5gs
    label: MQTT
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-hc5Tfixeqqei
    label: mqtt-service
issue: MTM-64099
---

> #### Introduction

Reviewer: Do you use these heading levels intentionally? As we usually start with level 3.

Author: No, I just made it so that my headings were not larger than the change log summary. Happy to follow the agreed convention though (https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd)

The Public Preview release of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} [MQTT Service](/device-integration/mqtt-service/) currently enforces *tenant* isolation.
An MQTT client connected to the MQTT Service can subscribe to any topic, and receive messages published by other clients to that topic on the same tenant.

> That is, there is a tenant-wide topic space shared by all the MQTT clients using the the tenant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is, there is a tenant-wide topic space shared by all the MQTT clients using the tenant.
```

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

> For the upcoming Generally Available (GA) release, the MQTT Service will enforce *client* isolation.

Reviewer: We do not have releases with CD. Or which release do you refer to? Perhaps just "for the upcoming general availability (GA)"?

Reviewer 3: Hi @BeateRixen good point, however we need to think of some appropriate wording because we shall be delivering multiple features before we say that the MQTT Service is officially out of public preview and GA, the word release is the easiest way to describe it.  

Ideas?

Reviewer: I would either just talk about "general availability (GA)" or use "version" instead of release. I would not use "release" here to avoid confusion.

Author: Yeah, I could live with "version", but let's see if Niko has an official PM view on the right term to use before I change it. FYI we do talk about "component releases" all the time in R&D so the word is very natural for us - but I do understand that we might need to present it a bit differently to customers.

Reviewer 3: Or we could use a more verbose approach at the beginning of thie doc such as: "when the MQTT Service transitions from public preview to general availability" and then use the expression GA version subsequently

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

An MQTT client will still be able to subscribe to any topic, but it will not **automatically** receive messages published to that topic by any other MQTT client.
However, microservices will be able to explicitly route messages between different clients.
In effect, each MQTT client identifier will have its own private topic space that is not shared with other clients, but can be accessed by microservices.

We are making this change to align the MQTT Service with the behavior of the existing [Core MQTT](/device-integration/mqtt/) capability, and to improve out-of-the-box security for typical IoT applications where direct inter-device communication is not required.

#### Impact on MQTT clients and microservices connecting to the MQTT Service

> This is a **breaking change** and affected applications **must** be updated to continue working after the GA release of the MQTT Service.

Reviewer: Same here: "GA release"

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

> The change will affect any application where MQTT clients exchange messages by publishing and subscribing to the same topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change affects any application where MQTT clients exchange messages by publishing and subscribing to the same topics.
```

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

> In particular it will affect applications where a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} microservice connects to the MQTT Service using the MQTT protocol rather than the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} client SDK, to exchange messages with connected MQTT clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular it affects applications where a {{< product-c8y-iot >}} microservice connects to the MQTT Service using the MQTT protocol rather than the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} client SDK, to exchange messages with connected MQTT clients.
```

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

> Microservices that are affected by this change should **not** immediately migrate to the existing Java client SDK, as this will not be supported in the GA release.

Reviewer: Same here: "GA release". Please also check throughout the text.

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd

It will be replaced by a new language-neutral API giving direct access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Messaging Service topics used by the MQTT Service.
Details of the new API and how to use it in microservices will be announced soon.

Microservices that are affected by client isolation, and that are **not** currently using the client SDK, should wait for the new API to be available before starting their migration activity.

Microservices that are already using the Java client SDK may continue to do so until the new API is available.

#### Roll-out plan

To allow customers to plan a managed migration to the new client isolation behavior, it will be rolled out in several phases, as described below.

Dates refer to when the change will reach the `eu-latest` environment; other environments will be updated later following the usual CD deployment schedule.

##### Phase 1: Introduction of client isolation
On or soon after August 4, 2025:
* Tenants currently using the MQTT Service will continue to have tenant isolation by default.
* Tenants **not** currently using the MQTT Service will have client isolation enabled if they later start to use the MQTT Service.

> * A public feature toggle will be introduced, allowing tenants to be switched between tenant- and client isolation under user control.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* A public feature toggle will be introduced, allowing tenants to be switched between tenant and client isolation under user control.
```

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3549/commits/d43bdc23cef6025d475cad6a9bc3baeef9fafccd
